{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Raspberry Pi USB RNDIS Driver (Windows)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This installer adds support for the {\b Raspberry Pi USB Remote NDIS Network Device} on Windows. When a Raspberry Pi is configured in USB gadget mode, Windows will recognize it as a USB Ethernet adapter and create a new network interface. This enables networking between your PC and the Pi over a single USB cable and allows features provided by the {\f1 rpi-usb-gadget} package (e.g., Internet Connection Sharing to the Pi).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 What this installs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Driver INF: {\b raspberrypi-rndis.inf}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Catalog: {\b raspberrypi-rndis.cat}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Hardware ID: {\f1 USB\\VID_2E8A&PID_0013}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Uses Microsoft\u8217's in-box RNDIS components ({\f1 netrndis.inf}/{\f1 usbrndis6})\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Display name: {\b Raspberry Pi USB Remote NDIS Network Device}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Files are signed and staged in the Windows Driver Store via {\f1 pnputil}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Supported systems\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Windows 11} (64-bit), including ARM64 (not tested)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Administrator rights required\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Secure Boot: requires a properly signed catalog ({\f1 .cat}) with a trusted publisher certificate\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Prerequisites on the Raspberry Pi\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Raspberry Pi must be configured to run in {\b USB Gadget mode}. This enables the Pi to act as a USB Ethernet device when connected to a host.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can enable this feature with:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 sudo rpi-usb-gadget on\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This command sets up the gadget stack and creates the required NetworkManager profiles automatically.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Note:} Use a {\b data-capable} USB-C cable connected to the Pi\u8217's {\b USB-C port} (for Pi 4 / 5). On Pi Zero / Zero 2 W models, use the {\b micro-USB port closest to the HDMI connector}. The USB port labeled \u8220"PWR IN\u8221" on some models does {\b not} support gadget mode.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Installation (on Windows)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Close applications that might alter network settings (VPNs, firewalls, etc.).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Download {\f1 rpi-usb-gadget-driver-setup.exe} from the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/raspberrypi/rpi-usb-gadget/releases"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Releases page
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Run the installer {\b as Administrator}. It stages and signs the driver in the Driver Store.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab After setup completes, plug in the Raspberry Pi via USB-C (or Micro-USB on Pi Zero).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Windows will detect and bind the {\b Raspberry Pi USB Remote NDIS Network Device} automatically. You should see a new \u8220"Ethernet\u8221" adapter in {\i Settings \u8594 ? Network & Internet} (or Device Manager \u8594 ? Network adapters).\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 First connection & networking\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You have two typical ways the Pi and PC establish a network link \u8212- both handled automatically depending on whether Internet Connection Sharing (ICS) is enabled on Windows.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 A) Host-shares-Internet to the Pi (Windows ICS)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab On Windows, open {\b Settings \u8594 ? Network & Internet \u8594 ? Advanced network settings}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Select your main Internet adapter \u8594 ? {\b Allow other network users to connect} (Internet Connection Sharing).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Choose the {\b Raspberry Pi USB\u8230 ?} adapter as the shared connection. Windows will assign {\b 192.168.137.1} to the shared adapter and provide DHCP service to the Pi.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Note (Windows quirk):} After a reboot {\b without the Pi connected}, Windows may leave ICS assigned to the RNDIS adapter but fail to start its DHCP service. When this happens, connecting the Pi will appear to hang or get a 169.254.x.x address. To fix it, open the adapter\u8217's {\b Sharing} tab, {\b turn ICS off}, click {\b OK}, then re-enable it once the Pi is plugged in or leave it off to let the Pi use its own DHCP/NAT service.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 B) Pi provides a shared network (Pi NAT/DHCP)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If Internet Connection Sharing (ICS) is disabled on Windows, the Raspberry Pi automatically switches to its own shared mode and runs a built-in DHCP/NAT service on the USB link. In this mode, Windows will automatically receive an IP address from the Pi (typically in the 10.12.194.x range) once the interface is up.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 The {\f1 rpi-usb-gadget-ics} service can automatically switch between {\b client} (DHCP via host ICS) and {\b shared} modes, depending on whether a gateway is detected on the USB link.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Verifying\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Device Manager \u8594 ? Network adapters} should list {\b Raspberry Pi USB Remote NDIS Network Device} without warnings.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Control Panel \u8594 ? Network Connections} shows a new {\b Ethernet} adapter; {\f1 ipconfig} should display an IPv4 address once connected.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Uninstall\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Use {\b Apps & features} to remove {\b Raspberry Pi USB RNDIS Driver}, or\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The uninstaller runs a PowerShell script to remove matching driver packages from the Driver Store using {\f1 pnputil}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Manual removal (advanced):\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 \f1 pnputil /enum-drivers | findstr /I "Raspberry Pi RNDIS"\line
pnputil /delete-driver <PublishedName>.inf /uninstall /force\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Troubleshooting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Device shows as Unknown / Code 10:} try a different USB-C cable/port; ensure the Pi is in gadget mode.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Signature error or "Windows can\u8217't verify publisher"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Ensure the {\f1 .cat} file is signed with a trusted publisher certificate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab If using a test certificate, make sure it is installed under {\b Trusted Root Certification Authorities} and {\b Trusted Publishers}, and Windows is in {\b test mode}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b No IP connectivity:} check whether you expect ICS (host gateway {\f1 192.168.137.1}) or Pi-side DHCP/NAT; only enable one at a time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Firewall/VPN interference:} some security software blocks RNDIS or ICS; temporarily disable or add an allow-rule.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Corporate policy blocks RNDIS:} some environments disable RNDIS for security; contact your administrator.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Security note\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 RNDIS is a legacy USB networking protocol. Use only with trusted devices and networks. Keep your OS and security software up to date.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 License & support\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Copyright \u169 ? 2025 Raspberry Pi Ltd.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License (see {\f1 LICENSE.txt} file).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab This package bundles only metadata; the driver binaries remain \u169 ? Microsoft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The INF file was derived from the generic Microsoft RNDIS template and adapted for Raspberry Pi devices (VID 2E8A, PID 0013).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Project page: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/raspberrypi/rpi-usb-gadget"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/raspberrypi/rpi-usb-gadget"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://github.com/raspberrypi/rpi-usb-gadget
}}}

}}}
\sa180\par}
}
